issue_workflows/sf_neighbourhood_updates_pt_2.md, before:

#Updating Who's on First Neighbourhood Records (part 2)

_Before you jump into part two of editing Who's on First neighbourhood records, make sure to check out [part one](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-docs/wiki/Issue-%23125---A-Guide-to-Updating-Neighbourhood-Records-in-Who's-on-First-%28part-1%29_) (covers the first four steps)!_

##5. Update Records

In the first part of the tutorial, we found open data and modified it to work with Who's On First. Now for the fun part - preparing our data for import into the project.

Who's on First treats each placetype slightly different, so we've broken this section down by placetype to detail what work needs to take place for each.

In this section, you will:

* Update and create new **neighbourhoods**
* Reclassify (upgrade) and create new **macrohoods**
* Reclassify (downgrade) and create new **microhoods**
* Update the **locality**
* Take care of any **deprecated** records and **outliers**
* File the **Pull Request**

###Update and create neighbourhoods

There were two outcomes with the new SF OpenData neighbourhood records. These outcomes were either:

* **A** - The modified SF OpenData record was joined to an existing Who's On First (WOF) record, the existing WOF geometry was archived as an alt-geometry, and the SF OpenData was added to the record's default geometry. Names were also updated.

* **B** - The modified government-provided record did not join to an existing record. A new ID and record for the neighbourhood feature was created. We need to add a new WOF record for this place.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/all_hoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhoods projected in QGIS, purple representing new records and orange representing updated records._

_Note: Our data source for San Francisco included large parks as separate neighbourhood shapes (see: Golden Gate Park, McLaren Park), but some authoritative data sources do not include large parks and open spaces as individual neighbourhoods. If this is the case in your locality, you'll need to split large parks from their current neighbourhood shape, creating new neighbourhood shapes for them. As a general rule, parks over one million square meters (roughly 250 acres) should have their own neighbourhood record. Because the authoritative shapes will be modified when creating new park shapes, set the `src:geom` field to `mapzen` (or another chosen name that is different from the authoritative source)._

The SF OpenData source contained 117 neighbourhood records, four of which were combination names. 

* `Aquatic Park / Ft. Mason`
* `Downtown / Union Square`
* `Laurel Heights / Jordan Park`
* `Lincoln Park / Ft. Miley`

As discussed in part 1, these neighbourhoods need to be split into separate parts. In this case, we removed one name from each record and created a microhood record with that removed name. 

**List of Neighbourhoods from SF OpenData**

`Alamo Square` `Anza Vista` `Apparel City` `Aquatic Park / Ft. Mason` `Ashbury Heights` `Balboa Terrace` `Bayview` `Bernal Heights` `Bret Harte` `Buena Vista` `Candlestick Point SRA` `Castro` `Cathedral Hill` `Cayuga` `Central Waterfront` `Chinatown` `Civic Center` `Clarendon Heights` `Cole Valley` `Corona Heights` `Cow Hollow` `Crocker Amazon` `Diamond Heights` `Dogpatch` `Dolores Heights` `Downtown / Union Square` `Duboce Triangle` `Eureka Valley` `Excelsior` `Fairmount` `Financial District` `Fishermans Wharf` `Forest Hill` `Forest Knolls` `Glen Park` `Golden Gate Heights` `Golden Gate Park` `Haight Ashbury` `Hayes Valley` `Holly Park` `Hunters Point` `India Basin` `Ingleside` `Ingleside Terraces` `Inner Richmond` `Inner Sunset` `Japantown` `Laguna Honda` `Lake Street` `Lakeshore` `Laurel Heights / Jordan Park` `Lincoln Park / Ft. Miley` `Little Hollywood` `Lone Mountain` `Lower Haight` `Lower Nob Hill` `Lower Pacific Heights` `Marina` `McLaren Park` `Merced Heights` `Merced Manor` `Midtown Terrace` `Mint Hill` `Miraloma Park` `Mission` `Mission Bay` `Mission Dolores` `Mission Terrace` `Monterey Heights` `Mt. Davidson Manor` `Nob Hill` `Noe Valley` `North Beach` `Northern Waterfront` `Oceanview` `Outer Mission` `Outer Richmond` `Outer Sunset` `Pacific Heights` `Panhandle` `Parkmerced` `Parkside` `Parnassus Heights` `Peralta Heights` `Polk Gulch` `Portola` `Potrero Hill` `Presidio Heights` `Presidio National Park` `Presidio Terrace` `Produce Market` `Rincon Hill` `Russian Hill` `Seacliff` `Sherwood Forest` `Showplace Square` `Silver Terrace` `South Beach` `South of Market` `St. Francis Wood` `St. Marys Park` `Stonestown` `Sunnydale` `Sunnyside` `Sutro Heights` `Telegraph Hill` `Tenderloin` `Treasure Island` `Union Street` `University Mound` `Upper Market` `Visitacion Valley` `West Portal` `Western Addition` `Westwood Highlands` `Westwood Park` `Yerba Buena Island` 

####Update existing neighbourhoods with new shapes and names

For cases where neighbourhood names were not an exact match between SF OpenData and Who's On First (remember `Haight Ashbury` vs. `Haight-Ashbury`), make sure we preserve the old WOF name name as a `variant` name (below) and set the SF OpenData name as the feature's `wof:name`.

 _"name:eng_x_variant":[_     
  _"Haight-Ashbury"_    
  _],_
  
<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/updated_hoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhoods projected in QGIS that mapped cleanly to an existing WOF ID._
  
A .geojson file (with an ID field) was created for SF OpenData neighbourhood records that have new geometries (above).

####Create new WOF neighbourhood records

We needed to assign each new neighbourhood record a new [Brooklyn Integer](www.brooklyninteger.com), which become the `wof:id` for each record. The neighbourhoods that need new Brooklyn Integer IDs are shown below, as displayed in QGIS.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/new_neighbourhoods_wlabel.png">

_Image: Neighbourhoods in SF OpenData that should be added to WOF._

A .geojson file was created for SF OpenData neighbourhood records that were identified during the research step as being "real" places but missing in Who's on First. Upon import, the following will occur:

* All "contained by" records will be found and the hierarchy will be rebuilt (in order of placetype).
* To automate this reverse geocoding, the Point-In-Polygon (PIP) server will be reindexed. This will allow us to regenerate hierarchy values and assign new parent IDs for any record that falls within a new neightbourhood geometry.

### Reclassify (upgrade) and create new macrohoods


Three current neighbourhood records were "promoted" to macrohood records. These neighbourhoods - Richmond District, Sunset District, and Downtown - were already in WOF, as neighbourhoods. We created new shapes by combining geometries from the SF OpenData neighbourhoods and updated names if necessary. 

To combine geometries, the Dissolve tool in QGIS was used. The shape for the Sunset District macrohood record was created by selecting neighbourhood records that fall completely within the area we're designating as the Sunset District macrohood. In this case, those neighbourhoods were  Outer Sunset, Parkside, Golden Gate Heights, and Inner Sunset. With those features selected, the Dissolve tool was used to export the merged geometry of these four neighbourhood geometries by clicking the "Vector" dropdown menu and selecting `Geoprocessing Tools` > `Dissolve`.

A similar case was made for a Mission District macrohood, but because "The Mission" is a valid neighbourhood in addition to a "cluster" of neighbourhoods, the existing record stayed in the Who's On First repository as a neighbourhood and a new record was created for the Mission District macrohood. 

These four records (below) were imported as new macrohoods. These four macrohood records will parent the new and updated neighbourhood records that fall within their respective boundaries. 

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData neighbourhood data and new macrohoods projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/macro_wlabel.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhood-based data and new macrohoods projected in QGIS._

###Reclassify (downgrade) and create new microhoods

There were 51 leftover records. These records are generally smaller than sections of larger neighbourhoods and are more appropriate as the WOF microhood placetype.

Our leftover WOF neighbourhood records that did not join to an SF OpenData record in San Francisco need to be adjusted to align with the SF OpenData geometries so they can be imported to WOF as new microhoods. This is important because microhoods should _generally_ not overlap neighbourhoods. There is no rule about yes-or-no overlap between neighbourhoods and microhoods (or even between neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, or microhoods to microhoods), but we are looking for cleaner geometry that's less overlapping for the **default** - overlapping geometries can always become alt-geometry records. 

**Optional:** note that the new microhood shapes can be generalized slightly (shown below). The Zetashapes occasionally cut through neighbourhoods at odd angles, so adding a missing block or two into your new microhood geometry is acceptable. 

<img width="600" alt="Neighbourhood geometries being cut to become new microhood geometries" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/1.gif">

_GIF: Neighbourhood geometries being cut to become new microhood geometries._

Shapes were modified using the Split Features tool in the Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS. This toolbar does not automatically appear in QGIS; to access the Advanced Editor Toolbar (below), we'll need to enable it under QGIS's View tab. Navigate to the View tab in QGIS and select `Toolbars` > `Advanced Digitizing Toolbar`. 

<img width="600" alt="Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/12.png">

_Image: Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS, with the Split Feature tool highlighted._

Alternatively, the Clip with Polygon from Another Layer tool in the Digitizing Toolbar will automatically cut neighboburhood polygons into microhood polygons. 

Since we are creating new microhood records, we'll need to use Brooklyn Integers to get new `wof:id` values, similar to what we did with new neighbourhood records. The remaining *21* neighbourhood records were given a new `wof:id` and imported accordingly. Lastly, since a change to the `wof:placetype` value qualifies as a "[Significant Event](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-docs/wiki/What-is-a-Significant-Event%3F)," new microhood records need to supersede the original neighbourhood records and the original neighbourhood records needed to be superseded_by these new microhood records.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData neighbourhood data and updated WOF microhoods projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/microhoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhood data and updated WOF microhoods projected in QGIS._

###Update the locality

Now that we've fixed our neighbourhood shapes, what about the city shape? 

The Who's On First shape for San Francisco was technically correct, showing all land, water, and offshore islands administered by the city. But, its not the city's seven mile by seven mile iconic shape. [A new geometry of San Francisco](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/blob/master/data/859/225/83/85922583-alt-mapzen.geojson) without the outlying areas (Treasure Island and Farallon Islands) was produced as a new alt-geometry of just the contiguous San Francisco (comparison below). 

<img width="600" alt="Comparison of San Francisco's WOF geometry and alt-geometry" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/overview.png">

_Image: Comparison of San Francisco's new WOF geometry and its original geometry, now preserved as an alt-geometry._

This new geometry was created using the Dissolve tool in QGIS with the nieghbourhood shapes from SF OpenData. This alt-geometry was more detailed than the [current outline for San Francisco](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/blob/master/data/859/225/83/85922583.geojson) and is debatably the general outline that most consider the San Francisco locality.

###Take care of any deprecated records and outliers


While the above steps took care of the majority of our issues, there were a few remaining edits to be made in San Francisco:

* The **Westlake** neighbourhood in Daly City was incorrectly parented to San Francisco. This record needed to have its `hierarchy` and `parented_by` fields updated to replace the ID for Daly City with the ID for San Francisco. This hierarchy change qualifies as a significant event, so the record was deprecated and superseded to a new record for this neighbourhood. This requires us to duplicate the old file, update the `wof:id` property and filename to the new ID, linking up the `wof:supersedes` and `wof:supersedes_by` properties in both records.
 
* The **Transmission** neighbourhood in San Francisco need to be deprecated and given an `mz:is_funky` value of `1`. Using local knowledge, it was determined that this neighbourhood would be deprecated and superseded to the nearby record of "La Lengua", rather than a new microhood.

* The Who's On First record for the **Ft. Winfield Scott** neighbourhood in Marin County needed to be updated with a new geometry and correct parenting; it was also given a new name, `Fort Baker`. This qualifies as a significant event, so the record was deprecated and superseded to a new record for this neighbourhood.

We also have to ensure that all microhood, neighbourhood, and macrohood records are given appropriate `mz:min_zoom` and `mz:max_zoom` values.  These values should be consistent across place types, as they are used to determine at what zoom level the name label will appear (and when it will disappear). 

- `neighbourhood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`15`, optionally modify up to `13` for important places.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`18`, rarely modify.
- `macrohood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`13`, optionally modify up to `11` for important places.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`15`, rarely modify. 
- `microhood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`16`, rarely modify.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`18`, rarely modify.
  
##Now that we have files... server magic!

We could update each WOF record and it's dependents accordingly, but because San Francisco is a large locality with many placetype updates, we've developed in-house tools to automate some of this work. The following tasks need to be completed for records that we've edited:

* Updates to the **supersedes** and **supersedes_by** fields.
* All hierarchy values of "contained by" records need to be updated to include the new `wof:id`. To automate this reverse geocoding, we'll use the Point-In-Polygon (PIP) server which will rebuild a record's hierarchy.

The Point-In-Polygon server is a tool that update parent IDs for descendent records. Records are assigned a parent ID based on what boundary they fall within, and, since we've updated many records in San Francisco, thousands of records will need their parent ID updated. This automated Point-In-Polygon server does an excellent job in automating this process compared to doing this work by hand.

##Conclusion

Now that you've completed all the necessary steps, file a [pull request in our whosonfirst-data repository](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/pulls)! We'll review the pull request and let you know if we have any questions.

This was an exercise in data curation and data management that will undoubtedly be replicated in other cities around the world. Taking a look at cities like [New York City](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/85977539/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#9/40.6805/-74.0656), [Buenos Aires](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/85668081/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#11/-34.5939/-58.4518), [Helsinki](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/101748417/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#11/60.2107/24.9411), and [Cape Town](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/101928027/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#10/-34.0028/18.4627), for example, you'll notice that we still have work to do to improve our neighbourhood records. A few take-aways:

* Anyone has the ability to contribute to neighbourhood updates for their locality.
* There will always be an argument for and against a change to a neighbourhood boundary.
* When it comes to neighbourhood boundaries, there is no right answer, but we care about your opinion. Please share!
* Neighbourhoods, macrohoods, and microhoods are ever-changing. Make the shapes better today!

Please remember - some of this work is automated and some of this work is not. Please contact us via an [issue](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/issues/new) or an [email](mailto:stephen.epps@mapzen.com) to work through the best approach for your city.

**Happy mapping!**

Commit message:

Existing versus new min_zoom, max_zoom recommendation note

issue_workflows/sf_neighbourhood_updates_pt_2.md, after:

#Updating Who's on First Neighbourhood Records (part 2)

_Before you jump into part two of editing Who's on First neighbourhood records, make sure to check out [part one](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-docs/wiki/Issue-%23125---A-Guide-to-Updating-Neighbourhood-Records-in-Who's-on-First-%28part-1%29_) (covers the first four steps)!_

##5. Update Records

In the first part of the tutorial, we found open data and modified it to work with Who's On First. Now for the fun part - preparing our data for import into the project.

Who's on First treats each placetype slightly different, so we've broken this section down by placetype to detail what work needs to take place for each.

In this section, you will:

* Update and create new **neighbourhoods**
* Reclassify (upgrade) and create new **macrohoods**
* Reclassify (downgrade) and create new **microhoods**
* Update the **locality**
* Take care of any **deprecated** records and **outliers**
* File the **Pull Request**

###Update and create neighbourhoods

There were two outcomes with the new SF OpenData neighbourhood records. These outcomes were either:

* **A** - The modified SF OpenData record was joined to an existing Who's On First (WOF) record, the existing WOF geometry was archived as an alt-geometry, and the SF OpenData was added to the record's default geometry. Names were also updated.

* **B** - The modified government-provided record did not join to an existing record. A new ID and record for the neighbourhood feature was created. We need to add a new WOF record for this place.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/all_hoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhoods projected in QGIS, purple representing new records and orange representing updated records._

_Note: Our data source for San Francisco included large parks as separate neighbourhood shapes (see: Golden Gate Park, McLaren Park), but some authoritative data sources do not include large parks and open spaces as individual neighbourhoods. If this is the case in your locality, you'll need to split large parks from their current neighbourhood shape, creating new neighbourhood shapes for them. As a general rule, parks over one million square meters (roughly 250 acres) should have their own neighbourhood record. Because the authoritative shapes will be modified when creating new park shapes, set the `src:geom` field to `mapzen` (or another chosen name that is different from the authoritative source)._

The SF OpenData source contained 117 neighbourhood records, four of which were combination names. 

* `Aquatic Park / Ft. Mason`
* `Downtown / Union Square`
* `Laurel Heights / Jordan Park`
* `Lincoln Park / Ft. Miley`

As discussed in part 1, these neighbourhoods need to be split into separate parts. In this case, we removed one name from each record and created a microhood record with that removed name. 

**List of Neighbourhoods from SF OpenData**

`Alamo Square` `Anza Vista` `Apparel City` `Aquatic Park / Ft. Mason` `Ashbury Heights` `Balboa Terrace` `Bayview` `Bernal Heights` `Bret Harte` `Buena Vista` `Candlestick Point SRA` `Castro` `Cathedral Hill` `Cayuga` `Central Waterfront` `Chinatown` `Civic Center` `Clarendon Heights` `Cole Valley` `Corona Heights` `Cow Hollow` `Crocker Amazon` `Diamond Heights` `Dogpatch` `Dolores Heights` `Downtown / Union Square` `Duboce Triangle` `Eureka Valley` `Excelsior` `Fairmount` `Financial District` `Fishermans Wharf` `Forest Hill` `Forest Knolls` `Glen Park` `Golden Gate Heights` `Golden Gate Park` `Haight Ashbury` `Hayes Valley` `Holly Park` `Hunters Point` `India Basin` `Ingleside` `Ingleside Terraces` `Inner Richmond` `Inner Sunset` `Japantown` `Laguna Honda` `Lake Street` `Lakeshore` `Laurel Heights / Jordan Park` `Lincoln Park / Ft. Miley` `Little Hollywood` `Lone Mountain` `Lower Haight` `Lower Nob Hill` `Lower Pacific Heights` `Marina` `McLaren Park` `Merced Heights` `Merced Manor` `Midtown Terrace` `Mint Hill` `Miraloma Park` `Mission` `Mission Bay` `Mission Dolores` `Mission Terrace` `Monterey Heights` `Mt. Davidson Manor` `Nob Hill` `Noe Valley` `North Beach` `Northern Waterfront` `Oceanview` `Outer Mission` `Outer Richmond` `Outer Sunset` `Pacific Heights` `Panhandle` `Parkmerced` `Parkside` `Parnassus Heights` `Peralta Heights` `Polk Gulch` `Portola` `Potrero Hill` `Presidio Heights` `Presidio National Park` `Presidio Terrace` `Produce Market` `Rincon Hill` `Russian Hill` `Seacliff` `Sherwood Forest` `Showplace Square` `Silver Terrace` `South Beach` `South of Market` `St. Francis Wood` `St. Marys Park` `Stonestown` `Sunnydale` `Sunnyside` `Sutro Heights` `Telegraph Hill` `Tenderloin` `Treasure Island` `Union Street` `University Mound` `Upper Market` `Visitacion Valley` `West Portal` `Western Addition` `Westwood Highlands` `Westwood Park` `Yerba Buena Island` 

####Update existing neighbourhoods with new shapes and names

For cases where neighbourhood names were not an exact match between SF OpenData and Who's On First (remember `Haight Ashbury` vs. `Haight-Ashbury`), make sure we preserve the old WOF name name as a `variant` name (below) and set the SF OpenData name as the feature's `wof:name`.

 _"name:eng_x_variant":[_     
  _"Haight-Ashbury"_    
  _],_
  
<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/updated_hoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhoods projected in QGIS that mapped cleanly to an existing WOF ID._
  
A .geojson file (with an ID field) was created for SF OpenData neighbourhood records that have new geometries (above).

####Create new WOF neighbourhood records

We needed to assign each new neighbourhood record a new [Brooklyn Integer](www.brooklyninteger.com), which become the `wof:id` for each record. The neighbourhoods that need new Brooklyn Integer IDs are shown below, as displayed in QGIS.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData updated and new neighbourhood data projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/new_neighbourhoods_wlabel.png">

_Image: Neighbourhoods in SF OpenData that should be added to WOF._

A .geojson file was created for SF OpenData neighbourhood records that were identified during the research step as being "real" places but missing in Who's on First. Upon import, the following will occur:

* All "contained by" records will be found and the hierarchy will be rebuilt (in order of placetype).
* To automate this reverse geocoding, the Point-In-Polygon (PIP) server will be reindexed. This will allow us to regenerate hierarchy values and assign new parent IDs for any record that falls within a new neightbourhood geometry.

### Reclassify (upgrade) and create new macrohoods


Three current neighbourhood records were "promoted" to macrohood records. These neighbourhoods - Richmond District, Sunset District, and Downtown - were already in WOF, as neighbourhoods. We created new shapes by combining geometries from the SF OpenData neighbourhoods and updated names if necessary. 

To combine geometries, the Dissolve tool in QGIS was used. The shape for the Sunset District macrohood record was created by selecting neighbourhood records that fall completely within the area we're designating as the Sunset District macrohood. In this case, those neighbourhoods were  Outer Sunset, Parkside, Golden Gate Heights, and Inner Sunset. With those features selected, the Dissolve tool was used to export the merged geometry of these four neighbourhood geometries by clicking the "Vector" dropdown menu and selecting `Geoprocessing Tools` > `Dissolve`.

A similar case was made for a Mission District macrohood, but because "The Mission" is a valid neighbourhood in addition to a "cluster" of neighbourhoods, the existing record stayed in the Who's On First repository as a neighbourhood and a new record was created for the Mission District macrohood. 

These four records (below) were imported as new macrohoods. These four macrohood records will parent the new and updated neighbourhood records that fall within their respective boundaries. 

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData neighbourhood data and new macrohoods projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/macro_wlabel.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhood-based data and new macrohoods projected in QGIS._

###Reclassify (downgrade) and create new microhoods

There were 51 leftover records. These records are generally smaller than sections of larger neighbourhoods and are more appropriate as the WOF microhood placetype.

Our leftover WOF neighbourhood records that did not join to an SF OpenData record in San Francisco need to be adjusted to align with the SF OpenData geometries so they can be imported to WOF as new microhoods. This is important because microhoods should _generally_ not overlap neighbourhoods. There is no rule about yes-or-no overlap between neighbourhoods and microhoods (or even between neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, or microhoods to microhoods), but we are looking for cleaner geometry that's less overlapping for the **default** - overlapping geometries can always become alt-geometry records. 

**Optional:** note that the new microhood shapes can be generalized slightly (shown below). The Zetashapes occasionally cut through neighbourhoods at odd angles, so adding a missing block or two into your new microhood geometry is acceptable. 

<img width="600" alt="Neighbourhood geometries being cut to become new microhood geometries" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/1.gif">

_GIF: Neighbourhood geometries being cut to become new microhood geometries._

Shapes were modified using the Split Features tool in the Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS. This toolbar does not automatically appear in QGIS; to access the Advanced Editor Toolbar (below), we'll need to enable it under QGIS's View tab. Navigate to the View tab in QGIS and select `Toolbars` > `Advanced Digitizing Toolbar`. 

<img width="600" alt="Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/12.png">

_Image: Advanced Digitizing Toolbar in QGIS, with the Split Feature tool highlighted._

Alternatively, the Clip with Polygon from Another Layer tool in the Digitizing Toolbar will automatically cut neighboburhood polygons into microhood polygons. 

Since we are creating new microhood records, we'll need to use Brooklyn Integers to get new `wof:id` values, similar to what we did with new neighbourhood records. The remaining *21* neighbourhood records were given a new `wof:id` and imported accordingly. Lastly, since a change to the `wof:placetype` value qualifies as a "[Significant Event](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-docs/wiki/What-is-a-Significant-Event%3F)," new microhood records need to supersede the original neighbourhood records and the original neighbourhood records needed to be superseded_by these new microhood records.

<img width="600" alt="SF OpenData neighbourhood data and updated WOF microhoods projected in QGIS" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/microhoods.png">

_Image: SF OpenData neighbourhood data and updated WOF microhoods projected in QGIS._

###Update the locality

Now that we've fixed our neighbourhood shapes, what about the city shape? 

The Who's On First shape for San Francisco was technically correct, showing all land, water, and offshore islands administered by the city. But, its not the city's seven mile by seven mile iconic shape. [A new geometry of San Francisco](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/blob/master/data/859/225/83/85922583-alt-mapzen.geojson) without the outlying areas (Treasure Island and Farallon Islands) was produced as a new alt-geometry of just the contiguous San Francisco (comparison below). 

<img width="600" alt="Comparison of San Francisco's WOF geometry and alt-geometry" src="https://mapzen-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/images/sf-neighbourhood-updates/overview.png">

_Image: Comparison of San Francisco's new WOF geometry and its original geometry, now preserved as an alt-geometry._

This new geometry was created using the Dissolve tool in QGIS with the nieghbourhood shapes from SF OpenData. This alt-geometry was more detailed than the [current outline for San Francisco](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/blob/master/data/859/225/83/85922583.geojson) and is debatably the general outline that most consider the San Francisco locality.

###Take care of any deprecated records and outliers


While the above steps took care of the majority of our issues, there were a few remaining edits to be made in San Francisco:

* The **Westlake** neighbourhood in Daly City was incorrectly parented to San Francisco. This record needed to have its `hierarchy` and `parented_by` fields updated to replace the ID for Daly City with the ID for San Francisco. This hierarchy change qualifies as a significant event, so the record was deprecated and superseded to a new record for this neighbourhood. This requires us to duplicate the old file, update the `wof:id` property and filename to the new ID, linking up the `wof:supersedes` and `wof:supersedes_by` properties in both records.
 
* The **Transmission** neighbourhood in San Francisco need to be deprecated and given an `mz:is_funky` value of `1`. Using local knowledge, it was determined that this neighbourhood would be deprecated and superseded to the nearby record of "La Lengua", rather than a new microhood.

* The Who's On First record for the **Ft. Winfield Scott** neighbourhood in Marin County needed to be updated with a new geometry and correct parenting; it was also given a new name, `Fort Baker`. This qualifies as a significant event, so the record was deprecated and superseded to a new record for this neighbourhood.

We also have to ensure that all microhood, neighbourhood, and macrohood records are given appropriate `mz:min_zoom` and `mz:max_zoom` values.  These values should be consistent across place types, as they are used to determine at what zoom level the name label will appear (and when it will disappear). 

For existing features, probably don't modify the existing `min_zoom` and `max_zoom` values. But for new features, do the following:

- `neighbourhood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`15`, optionally modify up to `13` for important places.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`18`, rarely modify.
- `macrohood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`13`, optionally modify up to `11` for important places.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`15`, rarely modify. 
- `microhood`: 
  - Default: `min_zoom`:`16`, rarely modify.
  - Default: `max_zoom`:`18`, rarely modify.
  
##Now that we have files... server magic!

We could update each WOF record and it's dependents accordingly, but because San Francisco is a large locality with many placetype updates, we've developed in-house tools to automate some of this work. The following tasks need to be completed for records that we've edited:

* Updates to the **supersedes** and **supersedes_by** fields.
* All hierarchy values of "contained by" records need to be updated to include the new `wof:id`. To automate this reverse geocoding, we'll use the Point-In-Polygon (PIP) server which will rebuild a record's hierarchy.

The Point-In-Polygon server is a tool that update parent IDs for descendent records. Records are assigned a parent ID based on what boundary they fall within, and, since we've updated many records in San Francisco, thousands of records will need their parent ID updated. This automated Point-In-Polygon server does an excellent job in automating this process compared to doing this work by hand.

##Conclusion

Now that you've completed all the necessary steps, file a [pull request in our whosonfirst-data repository](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/pulls)! We'll review the pull request and let you know if we have any questions.

This was an exercise in data curation and data management that will undoubtedly be replicated in other cities around the world. Taking a look at cities like [New York City](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/85977539/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#9/40.6805/-74.0656), [Buenos Aires](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/85668081/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#11/-34.5939/-58.4518), [Helsinki](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/101748417/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#11/60.2107/24.9411), and [Cape Town](https://whosonfirst.mapzen.com/spelunker/id/101928027/descendants/?&placetype=neighbourhood#10/-34.0028/18.4627), for example, you'll notice that we still have work to do to improve our neighbourhood records. A few take-aways:

* Anyone has the ability to contribute to neighbourhood updates for their locality.
* There will always be an argument for and against a change to a neighbourhood boundary.
* When it comes to neighbourhood boundaries, there is no right answer, but we care about your opinion. Please share!
* Neighbourhoods, macrohoods, and microhoods are ever-changing. Make the shapes better today!

Please remember - some of this work is automated and some of this work is not. Please contact us via an [issue](https://github.com/whosonfirst/whosonfirst-data/issues/new) or an [email](mailto:stephen.epps@mapzen.com) to work through the best approach for your city.

**Happy mapping!**
